prints here.
We're going toe practice with your conditional statements on that practices reading number
between one button right and then displayed in terms off words.
So if you run your pie transcript it has toe ask.
Enter your number,
then you,
Otto,
enter any number like 123 are up to 10.
Then after that,
through your pipes landscape,
we are displayed that number in terms off words.
So that is what I'm going to develop with your conditional statements,
right?
Let me open my everyday.
So they say,
is my editor.
Let me say where.
Script name as number to work.
Number two,
Lord Dark.
Feeling nothing.
So guys,
first step,
ease.
Your skipper has to read some number.
Let me dick.
Input or number equals two.
See,
guys,
we are reading a number.
That's why you had to use a malfunction in your pipes on three in port,
then here,
simply right,
and everyone number right.
So after that,
whatever you are entering the number,
you have to convert that number into work.
Suppose let's say you are entering number one.
Then you were given number is one.
Then you want to print it in terms off words like when you won so directly.
I can't write in this way Print you are entering number one.
Suppose right.
So for that I can't write in this way or simply If your number is one right.
If your number is one that only how to print this one for anyone.
If your number is to learn how to print it a blow to let me write first bring to bring
three Let me write it for us.
So that a really good idea.
Four.
Bring fight.
Let me repeat it upto 10 six Bring seven eight mine Then let me print it Then that's it.
But if I run this script right,
let me run it first.
So our striptease number two word conversion.
Right?
So this is your script?
No,
you fire under what is happening Because off very first line You're Skippy is going toe.
Ask end everyone number.
Let me do that.
Enter your number.
Suppose I'm wondering number two.
So if I end up number two,
he has to display only to But you were stripped.
Whatever you have as off now that is going toe.
Bring the 123456789 and 10.
This is not correct.
If you're given,
number is two,
then you're toe print only two.
That means you're to take a decision before going to print your statement.
Right.
So you know how you can take a decision?
You can take a decision using conditional statements.
That's why what I'm doing is I am writing if number if it is equals to one,
then I want to print this line.
That's it.
Some way.
If number it goes to cool,
then I want to print this line.
Likewise.
Let me repeat up to if number it cost to three.
Then I want to print three.
Right,
So there's now I'm using.
Ah,
very simple if condition.
Because you can write your logic in anyways.
But while writing yeah,
do write some effect too.
Oh,
script.
What timing?
I'm writing simple way using your simple If condition.
I will also show you some effective script to implement this logic.
Let me do it.
Let me do it up to nine.
Then finally you have 10 right?
See that number because to 10 that's it now warned Runny was scraped right.
Other than under any number five.
You're getting only fight then One.
You're getting one.
See that?
It's working perfectly.
Right?
So has off.
Know what I would just give to you?
How that is working perfectly,
but same script by June,
That same script.
I'm running by property by providing a number called Tool.
No,
you're not getting in output night.
So if you're enter number is 1 to 10 range,
then only you're going to display.
So that's what you want to mention in your script.
So I'm wondering.
Enter your number under any number and bet any number between Oneto 10 range Okay for
timing will keep this missile as in this way.
No,
If you run your script yes,
you are observing Enter any number between onto Ray onto 10 trains.
You know,
I'm wondering Supposed three.
Yes,
you are getting But even though if you're displaying,
enter a number between 1 to 10 drained by mistake.
I enter 11.
No,
you're getting you're not getting in airport.
That's why what I'm doing is,
if any number not in the given range Oneto tend range.
I want to display like I wonder display like your number is out off range number.
That's why I'm running one more if condition are their name.
Ive number Not in it.
Remember that our membership operators not in one comer took a modicum of 456789 on than 10
range.
Then I can see bring.
They were number is off range.
Please select between Oneto tend range.
That's a by mistake if we aren't any number other than 1 to 10 range.
So guys faster for you ought to know what is a membership operated here.
See,
when this condition result,
when this expression result will become true means let's say you are an bring number 11
then 11 not in this range,
right?
That's what we are checking.
If 11 is not in this range than this expression will become true then you are excluding
this line.
Let's say it them then and not in this range No then already is there.
But you're taking for Not that way.
If 10 is the number,
then you will get this as a false reserved.
That's why you're not excluding this like so there is a simple way to use you were Ah if
condition for this requirement.
But here there is a disadvantage off course.
Your court is perfectly correct.
It will work for your number.
I mean,
if any number you're going to under between 1 to 10 range.
But here problem is first,
let me explain with let us assume you were given number.
He calls to one.
Then what will happen?
It's even know what if you run?
It was keeping legs good from top down because our very first line,
your skip,
is asking Enter your number between 1 to 10 range.
Suppose I'm entering one.
Then this one will go in the store and you're numb.
Variable.
Right.
So after the in second line,
you have ive condition.
So if number cost one Yes,
our number is one and we are taking with one.
This is true?
No.
Then you're printing this.
Then your first of condition expression is true on your printing where anyone that is over
.
Then immediately or python will go and check next to condition as well.
Because all are in your belief conditions.
There is no relation between anyone off.
You've condition here All our separate blocks,
separate rooms.
That's why your fight on rewarding check with secondly fastball number is one,
but we're checking with two when it closer to no false.
Likewise,
all conditions are false.
But we know that if number request one,
why should recheck initially all these conditions and everybody for all our falls.
If your number he cost one even though,
if you know Marie coast one unnecessarily or checking all these conditions because all are
separated conditions.
If you remember we how if else if condition what is the users off uses off?
That I think,
is that if I add in this way else if then then entire if weighs one of conditionally this
entire Lhasa case one if condition on lead,
let me at it first else.
If then I will explain so not the meaningful disease.
You have only one condition.
This entire thing is like one of condition Now,
previously all are separated conditions.
There is no relation between anyone off the between any two off your if conditions
previously.
But now this anti from 2 to 23rd line entire thing is one of condition.
But this is if else if condition know how it will work.
See,
because off by adding else if you are all If conditions are treating as a one of
conditioned by your fight on.
Then what is that?
One days By writing in this way,
he's let me explain with the same number as one.
If somebody calls toe one what will happen first If by the for your vital will check this
if condition not because one Yes,
true.
If it is true,
your python will exclude this line.
You were if we Lalo to exclude this line,
I leave anyone off the condition.
You're faster condition self.
It is a true that's why by the four your python is going to skip all these conditions
without checking.
That is the at one days If you club all your if conditions so that you're going to stay the
execution time right on Nestle are not going to check the many conditions.
If very first condition is true,
then definitely we know that remaining all are false.
Why should we go and check them?
Soto,
aware that you have to write your all conditions all if conditions has a one of condition
So that is possible by writing in this way if as if as if also false if else If this entire
thing is no one of condition.
No,
Let me explain it.
Some other number.
Let me take my input is three.
I'm providing input as three.
Then three is going to store your numb variable in this.
So while excluding for first line,
you're profiting Number three then first line exclusion off.
Your first ladies were now in your numb variable the value with street.
Then immediately or pattern will come to second line immediately.
Three close to one False because disease falls because disease falls.
That's why you're fightin coming toe next eve.
Condition next else if condition.
This is false.
That's why Python is coming to else if condition so number 33 closer to know falls again.
These are false.
That's why we have one more else.
If that's why you're right and it's coming to here and then it is taking here now because
the three yes,
it's true.
This is true.
You're fighting will execute.
I mean,
you're else if will allow to exclude this line.
So now this condition is true.
You are excluding this line.
So if condition is true,
then your pipeline will skip remaining all conditions whether they're true or false.
Your button won't take care if the first occurring condition is true.
Then remaining.
All conditions are going to skip without checking.
Right?
So this is the odd one days by clubbing your multiple if conditions right.
So I think this is fine now.
Here also,
I can reduce one more else of condition.
Guys,
just agenda al gender,
this condition 2nd 3rd 4th 5th 6th 7th 8th 9th and 10.
If all our falls then what is the meaning for that?
Definitely Or number is not equals to one or two or three or four or five or six or seven
or eight or nine or 10.
Your number is out off 10 range.
So why should we check this?
If all conditions are false by default,
we can say that number is out of range.
That way we thought,
writing your else if simply you confide in place off this line simply else you can write it
else you can write it if you want to keep it as else.
If not your number not in group off values noble.
That's fine.
But we know that if all first it and conditions are false,
means definitely your number is not in the range of 1 to 10.
Then no need to check condition again.
Dad,
look and say that if all other conditions are false,
then you can say that number is out of frame.
Please select between 1 to 10 range,
right?
So,
guys,
the else is your optional.
So you have to remember that when else will exclude mint If all about conditions are false
,
then only where else will execute.
Otherwise it won't x cured right on the hard to remember one more thing while excluding
your if else if condition If any one of the condition is true,
then you're fightin will exclude the lines which are there under that particular.
If condition on remaining all will skip,
all will skip.
They won't exclude.
They won't even touch by your python.
So in this way you're going to save your execution time,
right?
Fine on gays.
If it is fine,
Better Tok here also there is the one beside one dish.
What is that?
First of all,
let me x Goodison show you the result.
I'm going to exclude it,
right?
Sorry.
Not that I'm and brings up was let's say four.
Yes,
you're getting for now,
I'm wondering some number 34.
So your number out of fringe,
please select between 1 to 10 range.
Right.
Fine case as off.
No,
this script is also perfectly correct.
But if your number is out off in how your execution is happening,
just check it once.
So let us assume your number.
Variable.
I mean,
from common lane for this line,
you're providing number as some tools.
If it is tool right,
how your python is going to excuse your defense condition from top down immediately after
reading your number,
fighting is coming to your festive condition.
So it is going toe Very fight you are given.
Number is equals to one No fault.
So disease falls.
That's why your pardon is coming to next else if nobody calls to do no false,
then again your pattern will go the next else If number cause today no falls again,
it will go to next.
Like what is it is coming to last then suppose here number because it in?
No,
because your numbers too.
Well then,
next your python is trying to exclude next else if or else condition,
But as off No.
If it is else.
You don't have any condition.
If you don't have any condition by default,
this land will excuse so that he for all our false then only by the four your last line
will exclude.
Yes,
in this rate is working.
No,
I have it idea.
That is so.
If number is out off 10 range than not necessarily are checking all these conditions,
right?
All these conditions then you are deciding.
Number is also French.
After verifying all these conditions After that,
only you are deciding your number is also fringe.
That's why what I'm doing is cedar.
I'm writing one at once.
Freeway this escape.
Let me come in.
This one.
And I think Thank.
Just assume you're reading a number.
So I'm going to come in this life.
So I will write once again that line at last,
Sergeant,
that you come into your previous the script.
Now we're going to write new script in the same program,
right?
I am reading a number.
The very first itself.
I'm checking.
That is,
if if your number not in the range off 12345678 nine Other than 10 then if it is not.
Then if it is not in the rage,
Otherwise I will check it.
If your number in this range in this range,
then all I will try to convert your number in the world.
Right.
So here I would like the lousy con working your number indoor work.
But I'm not writing that logic will see it else means where else will execute.
If your number is not in the given range,
then only else will execute.
Then I can say out off range number.
Please select 1 to 10 range.
That's it.
A year Simple simple thing is just assume you're entering number as tool.
So previously whenever if we enter number two Well,
you are taking 10 conditions.
After that,
you are very fucking cool is not out off Italy's out off range number.
See your days previously If number is too well,
first of all,
you're taking all these conditions.
Then you are deciding number is out of fringe.
But know what I'm doing is foster which self I am trying to check.
Whether given number is there in the list off.
10 numbers are not.
If it is there,
then I will try to write a logic yet Book on what they were number in the world.
In case if this is false means your number is not in the given range off values.
That's why else back is going to execute its very simple No.
Only with two steps you are deciding whether number is valid number or not.
But in previous,
you are deciding a number is not valid number after taking 10 conditions.
So unless we are going toe,
waste your execution time,
right?
But here you're saving that.
Let me do that.
I mean,
let me excuse your court fight on number toward conversion.
I'm wondering number 45.
You're getting number out off range,
please.
Number between 1 to 10 range.
Right now.
I am wondering suppose three.
Did we say all this?
I'm not sure.
Let me save it.
Yeah.
No,
let me do 45 number out off ranging number,
please select 1 to 10 range.
No,
I'm giving a valid number.
Suppose but between 1 to 10 range number four can working your number into work.
But you have to write logic there to convert their number into four.
If it is a valid number already We have a logic to convert that right already we have a
logic to convert that so one out of two is no No.
Instead offering Stedman inside off your if condition,
I'll be right one more if condition because directly if number is a valid number Apparently
I can't say that it is a one.
It is a two.
It is a three,
right Are getting one.
How to do see that?
Bring one.
But when the I want to print this one if if Gay Sam writing inside If one motive if you are
number is equals to one,
that's it.
So inside off that ive conditioning or dried print one.
So I just tried toe exclude If you don't do space here,
what will happen?
You just right So that you can understand Why should we give space?
First of all,
this is mainly of condition With this you're violating whether given number is there in the
given range off values or not?
If it is in the range off values then it's like in this way guys,
just assume you have it.
You water house.
This is main door once.
If we under in the main door.
There are some rooms again you re enter into this room.
So to enter into this room are going to have a key.
You should have a key.
That's what we're doing here.
First I'm taking whether I am Linda in this group are not?
Yes,
I have a key for my main room.
Main home?
Yes,
I'm entering after enduring based on your number.
If it is one of your toe print one If it is to your toe printer to right.
That's why what I'm doing is Dallas.
If if somebody calls to to then printed to,
like crazy just complete upto,
then I'm not writing up Good.
Then you can write it like so.
If you want,
I can do it so likewise.
You ought to write up to 10 days.
You just have tried to practice in that way.
That's it,
right.
Liberated here also how to provide.
I have to give one important point.
Let me write it.
Sorry.
So,
guys,
well,
writing your python scripts,
indentation or providing space is very,
very important.
Goldman 26 What can let me write it else?
If if number because to eight bring eight.
I'll see if if number it close to mine print my then I had to write once again.
Right?
You're else.
If if number coastal,
pen spring,
then Yes.
This is perfectly correct.
It will work.
Definitely.
Okay,
let me go on.
Right.
I'm wanting number 48.
You're getting old for date.
If I under any number out of friends you're getting out off range number,
please select 1 to 10 trains.
That is fine.
Not this script.
Combat your all previous scripts.
This is somewhat enhances script.
But guess if you observe when you are entering into your for Steve condition,
are you not in your first of condition?
This is a room.
So you are entering into this room.
If your number is there in in this list off values,
right.
Let's say you are entering number called 10.
Yes,
10 is there in the list.
That's where you are able to enter into this room after entering into this room.
If number is,
tell your toe printed 10.
That's why this is if else if condition you're biting will check for Steve condition.
Right,
but by ton will check for Steve condition.
Your property number is 10 then equals to one No,
false.
That's why I'm fighting gum and check this one.
Nobody calls to know false then like ways.
One of those you number cost nine No falls.
Then come here.
Number because attend.
Yes,
you are printing so they If all these conditions or false up to nine then definitely or
river remaining number is generally right Because for stuff while you were able to enter
into this,
if you're number within this range 1 to 10 and if you're 1st 9 conditions are false than by
default to the last number is if foster nine conditions are false Then definitely you can
say number is 10 then known.
Check this last condition.
Of course,
if you write in this way,
that is perfectly correct.
But what I'm saying,
if all these nine conditions are falls,
then definitely your number is 10.
There is no doubt in there.
That's why that's why what I'm doing.
I'm not checking.
I'm not checking simply,
I'm writing else block.
That is good,
actually.
So you know when else will exclude if all about conditions are false,
then only it will exclude.
We know that if all our falls then definitely.
Number is 10.
That's where I'm printing 10.
That's a right.
See that?
It will work perfectly.
Let me under number 10.
Yes.
Let me under number some 23 are some four.
It's working right?
Flying still How very,
very useful.
Vale Frightening for this.
Quite me.
Still How one more enhanced way to write this script.
Maybe you may not get that idea as off.
No,
but once if you see.
But nobody forget.
That type of situations definitely will get this area.
So what is that?
I see.
What is that?
Let me come in this gold first.
See now,
as I have no to display a number 1 to 10 range.
How many lines you're writing?
So from 27 to almost let me daily them the lines.
That means almost off 27 lines.
Your writing to display simply your number.
Our numbers from 1 to 10 range.
But what I'm doing is one second.
I'm going to come in the score days.
See that what I'm doing first of all,
before going to really one number Or maybe after reading your number.
No problem.
The first thing is you should read some number from your input.
Yes.
Support.
Assume that I am reading my number.
After that,
I am offer that I am defining my dick.
Steady gaze,
My one big study.
So what is the big story?
How your dictionary will be there.
We know that it dick study will How key value pair representation.
So no,
I am defending my dick.
Study in this way our number two world conversion victory equals two dexterity.
Should be always with curly braces on with key value pair representations.
So I'm taking Kia's win number one on its value s where anyone So that is one key value
pair representation.
Let me take 2nd 1 then 3rd 1 Yes.
If you go through this I mean this lousy current logic.
Then you'll feel true because it's very nice one and it's very useful one.
Just after this,
let me force to create my dictionary with 1 to 10 as keys on values as words 1 to 10 right
.
That's what I'm writing here six then of midnight seven.
So there's this concept is very,
very useful in your real time as well.
So,
while writing or real time scripts,
you will come to know the importance off defining your dictionary with Cuba.
Lupe Representations.
One second.
The last one is stand right?
Yeah,
right.
Fine.
No,
I assume that you are by running this skip What will happen Because our 54 line you're
reading a number,
you will live some number.
First of all,
I'm evaluating whether number is a valid number or not.
If number in 123456789 spin,
then then then I can say bring valid number.
First of all admitted rallied number If it is not in the given range than I can say,
Please enter.
Your number is always you are Number is out off range Please select someone to 10 range
Nothing.
So guys here previously toe can What?
Your number in tow word your writing some if else If else If conditions But no,
I'm not writing there because I have a dick study in my dictionary I have a key and value
paid representation.
Now what I'm doing is simply I'm printing my big story.
My dick study Don't get dot Get You were key.
Whatever the number you are providing that number I'm placing here.
No before running this cape.
Let me select this one and I'm going toe fight on terminal date.
I will show you first so that you can easily in this time this is my dig.
Sorry,
guys.
Number work.
Get embroiling.
Right.
I'm promoting one.
See the result?
What I'm taking to see the result.
No.
Whatever the input you're providing,
that is a number,
right?
So no one I'm doing is based on your import.
I'm selecting a key value from my dictionary.
So you may under one.
If we under one get one.
What is the one value?
Where anyone.
That's what we are displaying.
It's very simple one,
right?
Let me save it and run it and see the magic.
First of all,
let me weapon.
He was script.
See the last length,
the only we have 123456 lanes inch off 27 lines.
Now we have only six lines.
Let me remove some empty lanes.
Here,
let me say on Let me re open you r script here.
Right?
So this is your skip today's No.
Let me run it first You're number.
The word I'm an things up was four.
You're getting all put for more See what will happen but never if you enter number.
As for that,
four is going to store in your number able Fine.
You are checking if anyone This is just defending your variable value.
Right dictionary there.
After that,
your partner will come and exclude this one Numb 44 in this rain Yes,
if it is in this range one regarding print num word from your dictionary.
A key key one with that key.
What is the value?
That's what we are printing.
No monitor Take.
You felt condition also here,
right?
So guys try to understand this simple magic.
It's very useful in your real time.
Okay,
Okay.
guys,
Thank you for watching this video.